# aws-sam-sam-starter
Template projects to get started with

# aws-sam-template

This project contains source code and supporting files for a serverless application that you can deploy with the SAM CLI. It includes the following files and folders.

- hello_world - Code for the application's Lambda function.
- events - Invocation events that you can use to invoke the function.
- tests - Unit tests for the application code. 
- template.yaml - A template that defines the application's AWS resources.


## Deploy the sample application


```bash
sam build --use-container
sam deploy --guided
```


## Use the SAM CLI to build and test locally

Build your application with the `sam build --use-container` command.

```bash
aws-sam-template$ sam build --use-container
```

Run functions locally and invoke them with the `sam local invoke` command.

```bash
aws-sam-template$ sam local invoke HelloWorldFunction --event events/event.json
```

The SAM CLI can also emulate your application's API. Use the `sam local start-api` to run the API locally on port 3000.

```bash
aws-sam-template$ sam local start-api
aws-sam-template$ curl http://localhost:3000/
```

The SAM CLI reads the application template to determine the API's routes and the functions that they invoke. The `Events` property on each function's definition includes the route and method for each path.

```yaml
      Events:
        HelloWorld:
          Type: Api
          Properties:
            Path: /hello
            Method: get
```


## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

`NOTE`: This command works for all AWS Lambda functions; not just the ones you deploy using SAM.

```bash
aws-sam-template$ sam logs -n HelloWorldFunction --stack-name aws-sam-template --tail
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Tests

Tests are defined in the `tests` folder in this project. Use PIP to install the test dependencies and run tests.

```bash
aws-sam-template$ pip install -r tests/requirements.txt --user
# unit test
aws-sam-template$ python -m pytest tests/unit -v
# integration test, requiring deploying the stack first.
# Create the env variable AWS_SAM_STACK_NAME with the name of the stack we are testing
aws-sam-template$ AWS_SAM_STACK_NAME=<stack-name> python -m pytest tests/integration -v
```

## Cleanup

To delete the sample application that you created, use the AWS CLI. Assuming you used your project name for the stack name, you can run the following:

```bash
aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name aws-sam-template
```

